---
postTitle: "Welcome to the Blog"
excerpt: "hi guys consider subscribing to my yt channel pls thx"
date: "2024-09-01"
author: Alex Westerman
slug: '0001'
---

Welcome to the first "blog" post I've created. It's not the usual kind of blog that has an RSS feed (yet) and has no direct focus but I plan on *occasionally* venting thoughts or breakdown technical details of things I think are cool. While this could totally devolve into ramblings about __why [Rust](https://rust-lang.org) is a great language__ or other insane things like __Windows being a pretty ok developer platform__, it's too early to make a judgment on where this will go.

Again, I'm writing on my own time and with my own passion, so I don't know where this will go. If this gets really popular, I'll consider adding ways to support me as a way to incentivize continuing this work. Who knows. The future is uncertain.

Aside from this welcome, the inaugural blog post will be based on some design journals I wrote for a project while in College making a Java linter (which is open source but I would not recommend using it compared to established tools!). It's something I think shows a lot of how I think and reason about things and has some interesting surface-level insights about program analysis. Should you read it? _I'd like you to but it's your choice._

## Why the name "ref_cycle"

Reference cycles are a "construct" (for lack of a better term) where pointers/objects in memory are self-referential in a consistent chain. [Rust has an entire thing about using reference cycles and how it could leak memory](https://doc.rust-lang.org/book/ch15-06-reference-cycles.html), and recursive data structures will often use them by design.

I often find that whenever I work on anything (personal, professional, or sh*ts and giggles), I always do a ton of research. I'm the kind of person who will have 200 Chrome tabs open and will cast wide nets during research; A good number of times it narrows down into a concrete set of sources/information, some of which I already had open. This constant "cycle" of gathering and refining "references" to information I use is also how I organize my thoughts in my mess of a head.

So not just a programming pun, it does have some relevant meaning to me. At least it's better than just calling it "Face's Blog".